And Ruin by Reading is the... Now, if it seems like we're not talking directly about it, because I read and it's my job to read the book, you know, so I'm not going to ask you what you did, that's obvious.
But maybe we can talk about the concept and why, you know, you've written so many other really wonderful books in different areas, the decision to... Why this?
Yes.
Why this?
I started it, it began as an essay.
I started writing it in 1989 or 1990.
I had finished a novel called Leaving Brooklyn, and I felt that I was... I wrote it in a state of desperation.
You wrote this?
Yeah, this book.
I write a lot of books in a state of desperation, but this more than others.
I thought that I was written out.
I had nothing more to say, and I always have had this feeling... I'm going to put this closely.
We've got music coming here.
In fact, I'm going to sit here a couple of lighters.
They had to put the damn music on, didn't they, huh?
You'll get that as background.
It's another topic, you know, people reading the music, they're talking.
I thought I had nothing to say.
And I've always had this feeling, I think a lot of fiction writers do, that they don't really know anything.
You know, I don't have a topic.
I don't have a field of politics, sports, that I know.
I only have a craft, and this is common.
So I was casting around for what I could write, but I wanted to just keep writing.
It's like an athlete has to keep running, but if you don't have your tennis racket, what are you going to do?
And finally, I thought in desperation, I know about reading.
I know what that is.
It's something I've done all my life.
And I started writing just whatever thoughts came to me about the books in my childhood home, about what I read, about what it's all, what the act is.
And then I got quite interested in what is this act when the mind encounters the word on the page, which is not quite another mind, but something like it.
And what I came up with was a 50-page essay.
which was eventually published in Salma Gundy, and there it was, and that was the end of it.
And then last year, about a year and a half ago or so, I got a letter from a very, very bright young editor of Beacon, whom I had never published with, and she said, she had found the essay in Salma Gundy, and said, would you consider turning this into a book?
And my first reaction, as it is to most questions, is no.
No, I said all I have to say.
By that time, I was interested in other projects.
I had written another novel and done a translation, so I was no longer desperate.
And when I thought it over, I thought, well, maybe there's something in that.
And I began to think of how I could open it up like an accordion.
It seemed to me like the kind of piece that was infinitely expandable, because it was all digression, as you know.
And I began to think of, I made a list of other...
little bits I could put in, like the part about books and movies or certain other childhood experiences.
I had a part in there about my father making me buy the cigars, which is why I know what cigars is from.
Well, making it is okay.
Ask me.
And I thought, well, I'll give it a whirl.
And I loved it.
It was fun.
It came out to more than twice its original length.
And here is the book.
So I really owe it to this editor.
Who's the editor?
Deb Chasman.
C-H-A-S-M-A-N.
Deb.
Yeah, right.
So there's the book.
And this book is doing me well.
I mean, I've never had this kind of success with a book.
Well, it's amazing.
I wish I'd take, but I mean... Well, the essay, even the essay, it's the same thing.
I mean, I could pick out which is old and which is new, but I hope by now it's seamless.
I knew there was no sense in trying the New York Times or the L.A.
Times for the Cecilie.
It's just not for them.
But how long was that song?
Oh, it was long.
It was 40, 50 pages.
So I knew they were the only, one of the few places.
That's probably 20,000 words maybe now.
Yeah.
Yeah, it was 50, 60 pages tight.
I'm never good at word count.
But they took it right away.
Then the L.A.
Times picked up the part about baseball.
When they opened the baseball season,
The baseball part is very funny.
I'm sure you know they always tell writers, not that I listen, because I'm not into the old school.
I didn't go to a writing program.
I didn't know there was such a thing when I started.
I always felt that what you write, that you know a great deal about something, and then what comes out on the page is the distillation of the few pages of the vast knowledge.
That's what makes the writing seem dense and rich.
Well, I have about five pages on baseball.
Those are the five pages I know.
There is nothing more.
I know nothing else.
But I figured I'd try.
And it worked.
It was okay.
I never watched the end of that.
So were you actually trying to relate?
Is that everything to books?
Yeah.
It's been called a memoir, but it really isn't.
Although I've talked about it, I'm not interested in memoir writing.
I don't have this...
urge that a lot of the writers do not tell about my life.
Well, I write fiction.
I don't want to tell about my life.
I'm very private.
But it's to talk about reading as a lens through which to see everything.
And then it became an organizing principle through which I would just say a lot of things I like, I want to say.
And it's like a, I thought of it like a yo-yo.
You know how you always are in control of the yo-yo.
I don't know if you play it, but I was the yo-yo.
Well, I was obsessed by yo-yo.
Yeah, well, I was very good at the yo-yo, too.
I haven't touched one in years, but... But I bet you could pick it up.
I bet I could pick it up.
Yeah, but you know how you could throw it out in an arc?
I don't even... I don't know.
Well, I don't know.
I'll go around the world.
And then you get it back.
And it goes quite far, but you always have control of it.
It's really so real.
But I thought of this book like that, the challenge of it.
The writing of it became an exercise in these arcs.
How far could I just spin it out and still be able to bring it back?
And it's still about reading, even though I talk about my mother's pots and pans and my father's cigars and whatnot.
That, for me, was the fun of writing the book.
And I think it works.
Do you have a lot of books at home?
I do have a lot of books.
Yeah, I would be willing to give some away.
My husband is the kind of person who can't give anything away.
I mean, he saves old mothers.
So I have all these books.
I guess I'm happy to keep the books out there.
No, you aren't a collector.
No, no, no.
So, I mean... No, I don't have that.
Books as artifacts aren't necessarily... No, that's what you... That was the premise, but I was really upset with it.
It's human nature.
The passion for books over 25 centuries.
Do you collect books?
Of course.
Yeah, of course.
I'm kind of like your husband, but I hate to talk with anything.
But I have collections of information.
My main collection, my major two books, is inscribed copies of books of authors I've interviewed over the last 20 years.
It's now number 2,000 books.
So it's 1,000 authors, sometimes I'll have two or three books.
So what is, well I shouldn't be asking you, but what is the fascination of just the object itself?
Well I think it's more than that.
Do you remember that edition of the New Yorker that was totally devoted to Hersey's?
You opened it up and it was John Hersey and that was the whole New Yorker.
Well, that's very collectible.
Yeah, I don't have the magazine.
I would just say, even probably more collectible than the first appearance, right?
That's right.
And we didn't know.
It was a kid.
I knew what had happened, but it starts out, I forget, with some doctor and a flash in the sky and that was
reading that for the first time.
But what I remember is my feelings on reading it for the first time, the actual object.
I don't know, it's where it is now.
It's different temperament.
It's different.
But really, when people ask me what I'm writing about,
I stopped saying book collectors because it was a glassy.
I said, trust me, I'm writing about human nature and the passion for books.
Obsession.
And I go to Alexandria and I go to, you know, I went up to part one is history and then part two is a lot of journalism.
I spent eight years going to auctions with people like Carter Gordon and I went to the trial of the book thief and
oh yes and i had the only interview with him you know the guy sold stole 23 000 for the 284 did you write a piece about that i mean it was that a part of the book that i would have read well there was i read a long yeah no no i told about desperation and i was telling you about the yo-yo the market with the digressiveness and the the fact that it was a lens through which i could
Talk about this ironic title, Ruined by Reading.
Oh, Ruined by Reading, yeah.
When I give readings, I always explain the title.
First of all, when the book was done, the original title of the essay was not anything I liked.
It was True Confessions of the Reader, and it really was more... It was ironic, of course, but it was more confessional in the parts that were about me.
Then when I expanded it, there were fewer parts about me proportionally.
So I...
I wrote down a list, just like, sort of brainstormed by myself, 20 titles for a beacon to think over.
And the Ruin by Reading I threw in as a joke.
I mean, this one would never consider, but as long as I let them have a good time looking at this, and that was the one they liked.
Ruin by, you probably know, there's this old saying, no girl was ever ruined by a book.
And I've been going around saying this is an old adage that I heard when I was a girl, you know, to allow girls to read books.
But then a person in the audience the other day when I was reading reminded me, rang a bell to me.
It was Mayor Jimmy Walker of New York who said that in a censorship case.
And he was, of course, defending the right of the book, and he said no girl was ever ruined by a book.
But a copy editor, because I hope you won't use, because a copy editor wanted to make it no person was ever ruined by a book.
to be politically correct.
I said, no, no, this is very graphic, this has to be no girl.
That's why Thomas Boldler, Boldlerized Shakespeare, said young girls could lead Shakespeare.
It was specifically girls that he hadn't liked.
So I like the title, Ruined by Reading, and all the people who read it like it because they come up to me and they say, yeah,
I'm someone else who was ruined, and it's, you know, so we have a laugh.
I was signing in New York at the book fair, 8th March or 8th April, and a guy who owns an Italian restaurant, he invited one of me to come over with his guest, he says, you're Nick Bazbaines?
He says, you're the one.
He says, what did he say?
You gave me the disease.
He said, read my book, you know, and he loved it.
But, you know, he gave me the disease, he said, which is basically the same thing.
Reading is such an intimate thing.
As Alice Adams said, he was the second most popular solitary vice.
It is, people feel very passionate about, not so much about books, they do, but about their habit.
the habit of reading, what this habit means to them.
It's something that you can't explain unless it's to a fellow reader.
You know, there are a lot of people who, if you recommend a book, sure, okay, I'll read that.
They sit down, they read it very good, and they put it down, and they go back and watch TV.
Then there is this small band of people who, and I'm one of them, and you've probably won't do it too.
It's like reading is, when everything else is done now, I can really sit down and read.
It's like that's the thing I...
and getting everything else out of the way so I can have this private time sort of communing with myself.
It's more than escape.
It's like a little inner dialogue that is so wonderful and so exceptional.
Nothing else will not really... Do you read multiple books at the same time?
I try not to.
I mean, I used to read just one book at a time because I was so involved.
Now everything is more hectic.
The older you get,
more hectic things get.
So I find myself reading two or three.
But what I really enjoy is to be deep into one book.
Just about two, yesterday or two days ago, I started Possession, the A.S.
Byatt novel.
I just interviewed her last year.
Oh, she has a new book.
Yeah.
She's another one.
I read an interview with her in P.W.
She's a book lover, naturally.
I had never read Possession.
It's wonderful.
Yes, I've read about... That's in my book.
How is it?
Oh, yes, because that's about...
Madness.
Yes, exactly.
Well, Possession.
Yeah, I've only read about it.
It's a multi-layered title.
I was reading it when you called.
Oh, it's wonderful.
It is.
And I thought, now I have to go on this tour.
You know, it's very demanding.
To have this book, I can carry this book to Chicago and Madison where I'm going.
and have this, you know, when all that whole balloon is over, they go back to the hotel and sit and sink into a long, rich book that I was there.
And it doesn't let, it's really wonderful.
And she drives from a lot of,
authentic things.
Well, I won't jump ahead.
Where are you?
Oh, I'm only... Excuse me, the couple, the young researchers have just found the house and he rescued this woman in a wheelchair and got into the house and that's where I am.
there's an exhumation to get some books and stuff and that actually happened this stuff is based on things he actually which I write about in my own book people actually go I don't want to spoil it because it really is it's a great scene and just briefly alright we'll back on again this is going to be a quick take to transcribe now this is one of these
books I can write.
The quotes are wonderful.
You really have a kindred spirit.
How many serious readers would you think there are?
I've heard an estimate of 50,000 serious readers in America.
I don't know if I can tell you how many people are in this country.
I don't know.
and maybe a couple hundred thousand.
Yeah, that's probably it.
But they're wonderful, though.
Yeah.
I read a newspaper poem.
This piece that I'll write will be in 25 papers, maybe two or three million newspapers.
And I'm largely an University of Collins fan.
And, you know, and I know I'm good readers out there.
Very rarely hear from my newspaper readers, but the people who read the book, you know, and you've only got...
40,000 books sold out there, whatever.
I hear from them all the time.
And these are people who are reading with intelligence and understanding.
And I'm sure, are you hearing from readers?
I haven't started getting any fan mail yet, but it's only out about a week and a half.
But I've been giving a lot of readings, and they line up.
Tell me, I am the same, I do the same thing.
You're talking about my life.
This is the way I was as a child.
I sat on the bed.
and it would get dark, or I read under the covers with a flashlight.
I absolutely do that because my parents didn't care.
My daughter, my older daughter does.
You can see the light.
How can you get better than a kid for reading?
I have two daughters who are both such voracious readers.
My older one is now in law school.
We didn't know how to get her books.
She had read everything.
At one point, I took the two of them, packed them up, they're snowsuits, went down to Barnes & Noble, this was a year before Barnes & Noble.
It was Barnes & Noble, yeah.
You know, on Fifth Avenue and 18th Street.
They had a part of it where you could get paperbacks for 20 cents.
This is what this kid needed, and maybe he was 11.
He went to, I bought, I don't know, I bought 10 dollars worth of 20, 20 cent paperbacks.
We all read them.
The younger one was three years younger also.
You know, I came home with a sack of books and I kept them happy for a couple of months.
We had to find books.
remember the story that also hit it that i would read that and i would be in tears because the idea of this she was not a reader she was a jump a jump roper a rope jumper but it was the same thing it was something that you that you love to do you will do till you die and if you're lucky or make you immortal you'll get your ticket into heaven would be reading but i think all these people
have this special feeling because there's nothing there's nothing else like that and there are people who listen to music but this is such a it's such a private act even if you talk to friends about this there's nothing like being it's a special way of being alone i think it's the only artistic exercise we really truly are one-on-one with the artist number one and it absolutely transcends
My next book is going to be titled Lives Beyond Light, which is from the Milton poem.
The area of the book is the famous poem.
The lifeblood of a master's school.
giving you life, which gives you life beyond life.
And so this next book is not going to be about collecting, but it is going to be about books through the centuries and libraries.
And then I've got some wonderful stories about the Jewish immigrant booksellers forced out of Germany who absolutely transformed the whole flow of books into institutions and stuff over a 60-year period.
Major, major untold story.
I'm working on that, but that's what you're saying, that you are able to...
to speak, to commune.
Now, you talk about words on a page.
Do you have any thoughts?
I mean, this is a raging debate, you know, and I've just entered it.
I didn't realize how much it rages.
and virtual libraries and digitized stuff and what will happen to the book.
Do you have any thoughts?
Just off the top of my head, I'm very unsympathetic to all that.
I don't like machines.
I like things that are natural.
It hooked me as a natural.
I don't like something that grows.
I even like to wander through.
It's very user-friendly, by the way.
You can fast forward, you can go back, you can stop, you can poke it.
It's very portable, you can carry it with you.
And you can't sit down, you can't curl up in a chair in front of a fire with a computer.
There's something about the way you do the act itself.
In a chair, you have a certain kind of lighting.
I have a wonderful passage in here, a quote from Calvino, where he talks about
You sit down, put your feet up, you have your ashtray if you need it, you have your coffee.
It's something, it's like a ritual.
Friendly is the word, it's a warm feeling that I don't feel about machines.
I don't like the simplest machines.
The only machine I ever enjoyed was a typewriter.
I was very good.
I was a typist and worked as a typist.
Oh, years ago in Philadelphia at the American Friends Service Committee.
And I could clean a typewriter, I could take it apart, maybe because it wasn't a typewriter.
But no, I use a computer because I'm not such a... You write it a computer?
No, I write it by hand.
But I transcribe onto it.
I'm not such a Luddite that I want to do something.
It saves time.
But no, I think the further we go into machines, the more detached we come from the sources of the human spirit and the body.
A machine is
different from a body.
I don't even like these expressions like we use now, you know, something turned me on.
I don't like it because it's referring to the human body as a machine.
I hope that I can't be turned on by a lot of things, but I would like an expression that is more physical or emotional, whatever kind of turning on it is.
It turns me on.
There are several others that refer to the body as a mechanical thing or the books that
talk about the brain as a computer.
I am not a neurosurgeon, but I know the brain does not work like a computer.
The brain works like an organ.
You know, it's wet and mushy and it's physical.
And I like things like that.
I like to wander through fruit and vegetable markets.
I like things that are real and tactile and not
not coming through the medium of the machine.
So my secret wish is that all this computer stuff will sort of die out.
Not computers, they won't die out, but the whole, the internet and the virtual reality, these excursions and the surfing and that, which I cannot figure out how to do it.
I hope that it's a fad and that some, that people can try... Unfortunately it's not, but I think in a literary sense,
You go ahead, and then ask me if you might find something.
They're interesting.
Okay.
I hope that people use, you know, like a fad, people are surfeited with it and get tired and go back to things that are real, like books, like fruits and vegetables.
Do you remember frozen fruits?
I remember when I was first married,
and start to shop.
You have six matins of chapels and a little green styrofoam basket and packed up so you could barely tear off the plastic.
And people, it was clean, it was neat.
And then it stopped.
And then now we have real food.
And maybe that's because of the immigration, immigrants who took over the markets.
I don't know.
But it's better.
It's better to say without the plastic.
And that's how I feel about it.
Well, I make an analogy, because I'm a badness, decidedly male analogy, but I really don't know any men who shave with electric razors.
You know, when you think that this came in and it was supposed to be, and you see them and they're supposed to be cleaner, I guess, and they're faster, and they're not sloppy, it's not wet.
But wet is better.
There's just no getting allowed.
Yeah, my husband shaves with a real razor, too.
The white stuff.
And it was really a sensual kind of thing to get your place wet and you see it.
open up and you go through this ritual, and instead of zing, zing, zing, I just don't see that ever replacing, but it certainly represents a quantum leap forward, technologically, I guess.
It's the same thing.
I really think it is.
It is.
I did a search the other night.
You were talking about information.
Information.
This is the information age.
That distresses me.
Information is always there.
You can get it in books, you can get it in charts, you can get it in virtual, whatever.
But what is important is what the mind does with information.
I don't want to have my mind filled with information.
In fact, I forget a lot of that.
I don't have my mind forgetting it.
I feel the more information, I may lose information,
But my circuitry, and here I am using a technical word, whatever's going on, that becomes more and more sophisticated.
I enjoy feeling I can make new connections, but you tell me two facts.
What is important to me is what I do with those two facts.
How many ways can I relate them?
What are the connections I can make between?
That's a creative act.
The facts themselves are only...
a springboard.
And I'm sure this is true not only for a literary mind, but for a really great science.
And I think that information, when you take the information and process it, and that's unfortunately using a technical term, but when you digest it or do whatever you do with it, information becomes knowledge.
And knowledge is nothing you're ever going to get out of the computer.
You're going to get data from a computer.
And it becomes wisdom.
Wisdom is the highest.
Yes, and wisdom.
And that, when I talk about the silent flurry of the mind,
The mind at work is what it says.
Yeah, I talk about this sound flurry, the mind is pirouetting.
The idea of the mind is not something static, it's doing a little dance.
You know, the information, say, like two pillars in a Martha Graham dance, and the mind is making little patterns, you know, what kind of little patterns can you make running around these pillars?
The pillars themselves, they only have to be there to allow this dance to happen, and that's what excites me.
I'm sure for a mathematician it's the same thing.
And I used to, I never studied math beyond the, I dropped out of cell geometry in ninth grade, but I was always interested in what mathematicians do, and it's highly abstract, you know, playing.
Right, right.
Well, I mean, a terrible use of it, but at one point it seems an interesting one.
I don't think I'm not going to write about that at some point.
The idea that that man thinks of himself as a writer.
And look what he did to get his book published.
And he'd come right down to it.
It's a 35,000-word book.
And he said, Blackmail of the Highest Honor.
I will stop killing if you publish my book.
And they did.
That's a subject for you.
Well, it's going to be in my next book.
In fact, my discussion with A.S.
Bryant and her new book, and she said what fascinates her are the libraries of murderers.
and there's one particular murder, a series of murders in the Moors in England in particular, which she discusses in her new book, Babel Tower.
His reading is very carefully done.
It's like, like you said, his library is very carefully done.
So I'm really going to try and find, I hope they find out what Ted Kaczynski read.
Because they're going to find where they're searching for.
And isn't it interesting that his brother,
read Ted's Manifesto on the computer.
Did you see the interview in the New York Times?
Yes, I did read that.
Boy, that wasn't lost on me that he downloaded this thing and read it.
Also that he could tell from the style.
That's how he knew it.
The ideas of it are bandied around a lot.
The style, the diction, the phraseology, that's what flew from it.
And that really supports the idea that
A person is his language.
You know, the way you shape a sentence is the most intimate thing in the world.
You know, people, writers, readers constantly ask, do you write fiction as well?
No.
The short answer is no.
I asked my editor if he'd look at a novel.
He says, can't you just keep doing what you do best?
I love that.
Why not do something else?
But they always ask fiction writers, is it autobiographical?
I know everybody hates to be asked that as this silly question.
However, you have to answer it.
And now I've finally arrived at an answer.
I say, yes, yes, it is.
But never in the way you think.
This common assumption is what happened to the hero or heroine happened to the author.
No, that's not it.
If you really want to, and I also don't like the idea of readers reading to find out about me.
They should not be interested in me.
They should be interested in the book.
But what is autobiographical, what is so intimate, is the shape of the sentence.
No, it's like a fingerprint.
No one shapes, no two people will shape a sentence in the same way.
And that's why Shakespeare is so, is unique.
No one can write a line of iambic, iambic, quite that way.
Everybody's sentences are different.
So when Kaczynski, it was like looking at his brother's fingerprint.
He recognized it.
It's like the tone of the whole.
It would be a play, wouldn't it?
When you think about it, a two-person play almost.
You mean people recognize him?
No, I mean because he was scared of his brother.
Yes, yes.
Well, the whole idea of this brother, the younger one, patterning his life after his brother.
Only recently did he break away.
He too was living in the woods and all that.
And he was not really cut after that.
Now he's living in a more conventional life.
Well, the split was when he found a woman that he married at.
Yeah, but being so enthralled to this brother that he definitely lived that way, that's obsession too.
Anyway, I think style is a great, the great one to receive.
You know how you can open a book, a writer that you know well, and you can identify that writer.
Anyway, they always use that on, you know, graduate exams.
Can you identify who wrote this?
I read that in a session where somebody's, there was a seminar, they were supposed to identify the author.
I had that in my, um,
But I can't do the Washington Post visits, though.
Have you ever seen the ones they have where you have to identify that they have these really off the wall of Washington's?
I can't do those.
I haven't seen those.
The Times run once in a while, but they're easier to do.
When I was taking my senior exam, when I was an Englishman, it was a quote, you had to identify it.
And it sounded, I mean, it was obviously A.E.
Houseman.
It was, you know, golden labs running around, whatever.
And I wrote, this is Hausmann.
And I said, it's Hausmann, but it sounds a little odd.
Like, Hausmann on a bad day.
And I wrote a whole other song.
It turns out it was Ezra Pound parodying Hausmann.
Why they gave that to us, I don't know.
Well, that's interesting.
You were right on track, actually.
I knew there was something wrong with it, but I could never have identified who it was Pound.
However, so I forgot where this all started.
The style being so distinctive.
You are fundamentally a fiction writer.
This was an excursion, so to speak.
Well, I have a book of essays.
I mean, I have a book called, I hate this title, but it's called The Lynn Sharon Schwartz Reader.
Pardon me.
I don't know.
I don't like this emphasis on the person.
And it's collected a few stories, a bunch of essays, and a few poems.
I've written some poems, too.
And I write essays.
I want to do a book of essays, but I don't have enough, and I...
Nobody wants to publish them so far.
Or they want me to... They want it to be on one theme, and I... All I can think of, what I like to do is anatomize a particular, an ordinary thing.
I have a piece I did in Harper's on beggars and homeless people.
It's like reading.
Not as a social issue, but what do they do to us?
If you're pumped or asked for money on the street, what is the other counter about?
What does it do to you?
What does it do to the better?
He's asking you.
And then I have a piece that's going to be in a Sven Berthes anthology coming out in Greyholt every night in the fall called Tolstoy's Dictaphone.
It's about technology, activity,
The Millennium.
Who's doing this book?
Sven Berger.
Yeah, well, I know Sven.
Who's publishing this book?
Oh, Grey Wolf.
It's a small press in Minnesota.
Very good press.
I'd like to get... This book is right in line with what I'm doing.
Yeah.
It's Tolstoy's Dictionary.
Coming out in November.
And I did a piece for that.
I didn't do it for that, but I had the piece around.
I didn't know what I would do with it, and he asked me for something, and there it was, on telephones.
And I talk about technology.
I like a telephone...
Well, I will push buttons, of course, but I actually like the thing.
You like the order.
I like everything that's simple and basic.
But I really like taking apart something that we use every day.
Whoever thinks about the telephone is so bad.
What does a telephone conversation mean?
How is it different from this kind of conversation with people looking at each other?
What does call waiting mean?
What is redial?
What do all these things say about us?
You know, poor waiting is really disgusting.
I hate it.
And I refuse to give in to it.
I hear the beep.
We have it.
And I have to have it.
I hear it, but I refuse to give in to it.
I won't read this person.
I'm hanging.
I mean, I'm talking to this.
It's a courtesy.
I get furious when somebody calls me and says, well, wait one, I got it.
I go crazy.
I said, you called me.
I mean, you're supposed to be paying attention to me.
Exactly.
I didn't even make this call.
It's the kind of rudeness that I think technology encourages.
Technology, this kind of technology, will take your secret weaknesses.
Like, I'm talking to say, let me just use you because you're here.
I'm talking to you now, but supposing somebody better comes along.
Am I going to leave you?
No, it's somebody across the room.
It would be disgusting.
But it appeals to this horrible feeling of, maybe there's something better around the corner.
I didn't mean you'd press the button.
Please, you're not hurting me.
And the redial, or, why can't we wait?
Why can't we dial 17?
Or the screen in your, I don't mind the screen in my pulse, but the thing where you have a little number.
You'll be able to know who's calling you.
I have that.
You do have that.
I like that.
Well, it's good for privacy.
I'll tell you because I work at home.
And I write a lot on deadline.
And I get a lot of calls from publicists.
And I really do.
And I know the numbers that are important.
And if I'm on deadline, I do use the caller ID.
Especially if I know it's somebody calling.
these telemarketeers whom I rank in the lower.
I mean, the ninth circle of that is where I put them.
I don't do that.
I say to them, whoever it is, I say, I'm sorry, I don't do this.
And even if it's a very worthwhile charity, I have to tell you, I'm across the board.
I just really resent being disappointed.
Well, that's all the things I write about in the telephone.
Anyway, so I have written essays.
Yeah.
And I'd like to write more.
And how about fiction now?
I'm working on a novel.
I'm trying to write a comedy of manners.
Yeah, and we'll have some serious underpinnings.
And you're a New Yorker?
Yeah, born in Brooklyn.
Uh-huh, good.
I just got a call yesterday from somewhere.
Well, we were talking about remembering the things that you need and love and forgetting the things you don't.
I was able to remember...
Everything about my childhood books, the books I read when I was a kid, in order to write Room by Reading, I would remember these books forever because I cared so much and they were engraved so deeply in my memory.
Whereas books I don't love as much or books I've read after the age of 30, I don't remember as well.
They didn't form me and shape me in a way.
Do you know Susan Sontag at all?
Well, no, I mean, to say hello.
I'm told that she's somebody who... I want a chapter in my next book about writers who have been really shaped by the books that they have.
Do you have any ideas of writers who might be... Who are shaped?
Oh, that you could use, who are shaped by the books.
I mean, in a very... I'm going to see Umberto Leto, for instance.
Do you know Stephen Milhouser?
No.
Oh, a wonderful, wonderful writer.
He's in Saratoga Springs.
He has a new book called Martin Dressler, The Life of an American Dreamer.
I think he's an absolute genius.
He, I bet, he writes this sort of fantastical, realist, but really fantastical, yes.
And I bet he's somebody who was shaped by the books he read.
You might say William Gass is somebody who might be shaped by early books.
I would be interested in knowing what someone like John Barth read as a boy.
I don't know if it mattered.
Or Doris Lessing.
I wonder what she read as a kid.
I wish I had this idea then.
I went to New York.
I mean, these are the writers who really
writers who feel their life is writing.
Well, that's good.
That's excellent.
See, Sontag wrote a piece in The New Yorker about how she went to Thomas Mann's house when she was 15.
Do you know that?
No.
You can look it up on the net in The New Yorker.
She and a friend... How recently were you along?
Within maybe eight years in that vicinity.
I can find that.
Not too recently.
She and a friend, you know, these sort of adolescent intellectuals, budding, 15, driving around California, where I think she's from.
They say, oh, I heard Thomas Mann lives here.
Let's go visit him.
And they do.
The two kids rang the bell, and they let them in.
And she describes the encounter, which is lovely.
Much nicer guy than you'd think.
Anyway, I'm sorry.
No, that's good.
That's fine.
I think we've got a lot.